Now, let's jump into the details of creating a SQL Server
availability group. I'll warn you up front, this is another
fairly code‑heavy section; however, while the last one focused on Kubernetes,
this one focuses really on SQL Server, and all this code is T‑SQL code.
First,
we're going to see how to create the primary replica for the availability group.
We'll start off by creating a test database for us to
use with the availability group.
Then, we'll create a master key and a certificate.
Since the different replica in this availability group aren't part of a cluster,
we need a way to authenticate between the different replicas,
and the certificate provides that. Next, we'll create
an endpoint on the primary replica.
The endpoints are used for communication between the
different replicas in the availability group.
After the endpoints have been created,
you'll see how to create the actual availability group and add the primary
replica and that test database to our availability group.
Next, we're going to go ahead and create the two secondary replicas.
First, we're going to create a master key on the secondary replicas,
and then we're going to restore that certificate that we
created on the primary to each of those replicas,
and that's how those wrote nodes are going to authenticate.
Then, we'll see how to create the endpoints on the secondary replicas.
Finally,
we'll see how to join those secondary replicas to the availability group.
Now, let's dive into the T‑SQL code that's going to create the primary replica.
This T‑SQL script is run on the primary replica.
The first thing that we'll do is create a sample database
to use with our availability group.
Remember,
availability groups were designed to improve availability at the database level,
not the server level.
So you need to add databases to those availability groups.
Here, our test database is named DevTestAG.
We'll go ahead and load a few rows into that database as well. Next,
before the database can be added to the availability group,
it has to have a full backup, and the recovery mode of
that database needs to be set to full,
and that means that SQL Server is going to log transactions for the database.
The ALTER DATABASE command is used to set the database recovery level to full,
while the BACKUP DATABASE command creates a backup of our DevTestAG database.
Here, you can see where we're creating a master key and a certificate.
The database master key is a symmetric key used to protect
the private keys of certificates and asymmetric keys that
are present in the database.
The master key is encrypted using AES 256 and a user‑supplied
password. First, the CREATE MASTER KEY statement is used to create
a master key and assign it a password.
Then, the CREATE CERTIFICATE command is used to create a
certificate called ag_certificate,
and this certificate is going to be used by our
availability group for authentication.
Next,
that certificate is backed up to the file system to our /var/opt/mssql server
directory, and that's the default directory for SQL Server.
This is present on all of the replicas.
A password is designed to encrypt the certificate.
That password can later be used on the secondaries to unencrypt
the certificate when we go to add it to them.
After creating the master key and certificate,
the next step is to go ahead and create an endpoint that the availability
group can use for the replicas to communicate. Here, the CREATE ENDPOINT
command is used to create an endpoint named AG_endpoint.
And that endpoint is going to use port 5022, which is the default port
for SQL Server endpoints. At the bottom of the screen, you can see where
the script specifies that the endpoint is going to be used for data
mirroring and that it's going to use the ag_certificate that we just
created for authentication.
Next,
we're going to go ahead and create the availability
group. At the top of the screen,
you can see the CREATE AVAILABILITY GROUP command. Here,
the availability group is named K8sAG, and the CLUSTER_TYPE is set to NONE.
You can also see where the primary replica is created.
The endpoint is set to the primary replica name, along with port 5022.
The replica is going to be capable of synchronous replication,
and the SEEDING_MODE is going to be AUTOMATIC.
Like you'd expect, the AVAILABILITY_MODE controls what type of
replication will happen with the secondary replicas, and the
SEEDING_MODE, it controls how the availability group's databases will
be initially transferred to the secondary replicas. You can transfer
the databases manually by just performing a backup and restore, or you
can use automatic seeding,
which allows the availability group itself to make
the initial copy of the database.
Since our test database is quite small,
I went ahead with automatic seeding. For large databases,
however, this can take some time.
At the bottom of the screen,
you can see the part of the T‑SQL script that
defines the first secondary replica.
The ENDPOINT_URL specifies the SQL Server instance name, along with
the port that's going to be used. Here, you can see that it's going
to be mssql‑secondary1 with the default port of 5022, and the
replica is going to use synchronous replication, and the
SEEDING_MODE is AUTOMATIC.
The T‑SQL script that we run on the primary replica continues along
with the creation of the next secondary replica.
You can see here the name is mssql‑secondary2, and that it's using the same
endpoint of 5022, and also that the SEEDING_MODE is AUTOMATIC just like the
other secondary replica. The script ends by adding the test database, DevTestAG,
to our availability group that was named K8sAG,
and that's the end of the script on the primary.
Next,
we're going to see how to use kubectl copy, or kubectl cp, to copy the
certificate from the primary replica to the two secondary replicas.
Remember,
the certificate is required to authenticate between the replicas. At the top,
you can see where we retrieve the pod names for the primary replica and then
the pod names for the two secondary replicas.
Next, kubectl doesn't support automatically copying directly from pod to pod.
So first,
I needed to use kubectl cp to copy the certificate in the key
file from the primary replica to my local Ubuntu system where
I've been running these kubectl commands.
Next,
I copied the certificate and key to the first secondary
replica and then to the next secondary replica.
In each case, I put the copied files into the /var/opt/mssql directory.
Once the certificates have been copied into the secondary
replicas, we can run the T‑SQL scripts on those secondary
replicas to add them to our availability group.
Here's the script that we want to run on each secondary replica. The scripts
that we need to run on the secondary replicas are identical, so we're
basically running the same script on both secondaries.
At the top, we create a login for our availability group.
Then in the middle,
you can see where we create the master key for the secondary replica.
After that, we restore the certificate that we previously copied.
Remember that certificate was located in the /var/opt/mssql directory.
The decryption password that we use here has to match that password that we
assigned earlier when we ran that script on the primary. Here you can see
the continuation of the T‑SQL script that will be running on the secondary
replicas. At the top, you can see where the endpoint is created using the
CREATE ENDPOINT command.
Here again, we're using the default port of 5022.
The AUTHENTICATION for the endpoint is set to CERTIFICATE, and that's
the certificate that we copied to that secondary.
And then access to that endpoint is granted to the login that we created. Near
the bottom, the ALTER AVAILABILITY GROUP command is used to join this replica
to the availability group that we created that was named K8sAG. CLUSTER_TYPE =
NONE indicates that no cluster is being used. The GRANT CREATE ANY DATABASE
statement enables the availability group to create databases on behalf of the
primary replica.
This is what allows automatic seeding to create that
DevTestAG database on each of the secondaries.
After the availability group has been created on Kubernetes,
you can manage it using any of the standard SQL Server management tools
that you would just like any other availability group.
However,
Azure Data Studio, that's the cross‑platform tool that we use to
run most of these configuration scripts, it does not support
managing availability groups. The standard SQL Server management
tool, SQL Server Management Studio, it does support the management
of availability groups.
In this slide,
you can see the K8sAG availability group running with
all of its replicas synchronized,
and we connected to that with SQL Server Management Studio, just like we would any other availability group.